src/week4/index.md, before:

# Week 4 – Testing and File Manipulation

## Lecture Materials

- [Monday Lecture Handout (Slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13piUG-QiDoxMq8X0lbkFT8sOHKj7D2lb/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109342588918218787603&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- [Monday Lecture Handout (PDF)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AJ0cpsywi0aLxS5DiKstIT2Eu8MljNHC/view?usp=sharing)

### To Read/For Your Reference

- [Bash and Shell Scripting 1](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/course-shell/)
- [Bash and Shell Scripting 2](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/shell-tools/)

### Video Shorts

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/XJBUw3sNeuk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/hIqa1EoqIBM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ZsCVRkR_nik" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/M_S88_2t1UE?cc_load_policy=1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Lab Tasks

As usual, we publish these ahead of time, but they aren't guaranteed to be final
until the start of lab on Monday.

This week in lab, you will download Github Desktop, find symptoms of bugs by writing tests, and then
narrow down the actual bug.

### Getting Set Up

#### Downloading Java JDK

If you don't have Java already installed, go ahead and download
the latest Java JDK version from this [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/) link.
Download the version that has "Installer" in the file name for your specific device (Linux, macOS, Windows).

#### Cloning with Github Desktop

There are many ways to download the code from your repository and upload
changes. We will use [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) to do this
today, and see other options in the future. Even if you have some other
preferred way to do this that you've used before, please do follow the tutorial!
You may learn something new and useful.

Download the [Desktop Client](https://desktop.github.com/) for Github. Install
it, and log in with your Github account. The startup page should look something
like this:

![](/images/github-desktop.png)

Then, you can get the code from your repository in one of several ways:

- On the Github repository page, there is a `<> Code` button; you can click on that and
choose “Open with Github Desktop”
- From Github Desktop, you can choose “Clone a Repository from the Internet” and
then choose your repository

To test it out, try cloning your lab reports repository. You'll see a message
about cloning, and then see this page:

![](/images/github-after-clone.png)

In this screenshot, you'll see the red circled part where it says `Open in Visual Studio Code`, which is where you can open your code in VS Code to edit your files directly! One thing that I often find a little surprising about this page is that it
doesn't list any files – `index.md` is nowhere to be found here! This is because
Github Desktop (and the underlying tool, `git`) are all about tracking and
recording _changes_; we won't see much in this interface until we make some
edits or create some new files.

Today in lab, you'll clone another repository and work with it a bit, so
you'll see how this works.

### Forking a Repo

Make a fork of this repository (it's OK if it's public):

[https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-f23/lab3](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-f23/lab3)

The fork button is on the upper right:

![](/images/fork-button.png)

This makes a copy of the repository on in your Github account. Then, clone the
repository that you forked (not the original!) using Github Desktop, and open it
in Visual Studio Code.

There are a few relevant files for us:

- `ArrayExamples.java`
- `ArrayTests.java`
- `ListExamples.java`
- `LinkedListExample.java`
- `FileExample.java`

The files that end in `Example` or `Examples` have code in them with bugs for
you to find – in `ListExamples` and `ArrayExamples`, all the methods have bugs.
- In `LinkedListExample` at least one of the methods on `LinkedList` has a bug. 
- In `FileExample`, `getFiles` has a bug. 
  
So many 🐛s!

The file `ArrayTests.java` has some _tests_ for the methods in
`ArrayExamples.java`. It uses a library called
[JUnit](https://junit.org/junit4/) to run tests using methods called
`assertEquals` and `assertArrayEquals` and other `assert...` methods. 
(**Note:** JUnit is already included in the repository so no need to install anything) 

When we run this class with JUnit, it runs each method that has a `@Test` annotation on
it, and reports the success or failure of the `assert` calls.

Since JUnit is an external library, it requires some extra work to compile and
run. These two commands work well, and you should see output like the below when
you run them:
    
MAC USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar *.java
local $ java -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
JUnit version 4.13.2
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```
    
WINDOWS USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp ".;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar" *.java
local $ java -cp ".;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar" org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```

- The `*` in the first command tells `javac` to compile *all* the `.java` files
in this directory. It's a shorthand for writing them all out, so it's a useful
notation to start using now whenever we have several Java files to compile.
- The `-cp` command-line argument stands for "classpath". Java uses this
command-line argument to know where to look for classes. It takes paths
separated by `:` / `;` (dependent on your operating system), so the first place it will look is `.`, the current directory.
After that, it will look for classes in the two `.jar` files in the `lib`
directory. A `.jar` file is like a `.zip` file of a bunch of classes, and Java
knows how to work with them.
- While you might think the `..` in the output below `JUnit` has something to do
with a path, it's actually printing a `.` for each test that runs. So if you run
hundreds of tests, you can kinda watch the progress by seeing how the dots count
up.

**Task with your group:** Try running the command of the operating system that *isn't*
yours. (For example, a MAC user trying the Windows command and vise-versa) *Observe* the
output and *discuss* with your partner/group what happens and why? 

### Symptoms and Failure-inducing Inputs

#### Array Methods

The two tests we wrote for you in `ArrayTests.java` pass, but the two implementations of *reverse* methods in `ArrayExamples.java` have bugs! Write more tests in `ArrayTests.java` to demonstrate that the two methods, `reverseInPlace` and `reversed`, have bugs, and identify the bugs.

**Write down in notes** - For each, what was the failure-inducing input (the
test)? What was the symptom (the output when the test failed)? What was the bug
(the problem in the code)? Be as specific as possible when adding the following down to your notes:
1. The code for your tests (copy it into the doc)
2. The output corresponding to each symptom
3. The code change you need to make to fix the bug


**Checkpoint** – After fixing the reverse methods, we want to save these changes to our Github repo. It's really useful to checkpoint your work this way; you will
be able to see in the commit history every time you make a change and commit.

In order for these changes to appear on GitHub, we need to **commit** and **push** them. Open your GitHub Desktop window, and it should show that you have made a change in the `lab3` respository as seen in the image below (which shows the `wavelet` repo but it should look similar). Click the button shown at the bottom left that says `Commit to main`.

![commit_github_desktop](/images/commit-github-desktop.png)

Next, for the changes to actually appear on GitHub, you need to **push** them. GitHub Desktop should now display a new screen. Click the `Push origin` button displayed in the screenshot below.

![push_github_desktop](/images/push-github-desktop.png)

Now your changes to this repository should be visible in GitHub!

You can see more documentation about git and pushing your changes here:

- [Key definitions about git](https://ucsd-cse15l-w24.github.io/week1/index.html#key-definitions)
- [Github documentation about pushing changes](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/making-changes-in-a-branch/pushing-changes-to-github)

Next, for `averageWithoutLowest`, you will do a similar process as above, making sure to note symptoms, failure-inducing inputs, and bugs. But, this time, **your lab partner will brainstorm one of the tests for you to write, describe it to you at a high level, and then you will implement it.** Complete these steps as described below.
1. **Write down in notes** - Come up with a high level description of a test that your lab partner should implement (without using any code!). Also include: Which symptom/bug is this testing for? Why is this test useful?
2. Implement and run the test devised by your lab partner

If you're having trouble thinking of tests, try starting from the smallest
possible inputs (an empty array), and then trying increasing sizes of arrays to
structure your thinking.

#### List Methods

There are two methods in `ListExamples`, each of which has a bug. For this
program, create **a new file** called `ListTests.java` with JUnit tests. In `ListTests.java`, write some tests to identify and demonstrate the bugs in `ListExamples`. You should carefully design your tests to get failing inputs, symptoms,
and eventually identify the bugs. Keep in mind that most of the time we can find
relatively *small* inputs that trigger the symptom!

Hint – if you're not sure about Java interfaces, there is [review material](https://ucsd-cse11-f21.github.io/lectures/lecture10.html), [and an online textbook with examples (free, you have to make an account)](https://stepik.org/course/100177/promo).

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see!

#### Linked List Methods

The file `LinkedListExample.java` has an implementation of a linked list that
is, in fact, buggy. We won't tell you which method(s) have the bugs. Create a
file called `LinkedListTests.java` and write tests in that file.

Note that for this case, your failure-inducing input requires a little more work
to construct: you have to build lists and try out the methods. All of that work
is part of the “failure-inducing input”, and it's useful to have it all written
down in code so that we don't have to remember it or re-type it each time we
want to run the test.

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see! This is repeated from last week.

**Reflect, write down in notes** – You've now had to create two new test files
(one for `ListExamples` and one for `LinkedListExample`). What actions did you take in
your editor to do this? How long did it take you? Could you or did you use
copy/paste effectively to avoid lots of typing? Could you or did you use the up
arrow in the terminal to “get back” earlier commands rather than typing them out
again? Any other tricks you could use to make this more painless in the future?

Discuss with your group! The long-term goal here is to learn tips and tricks to
take tasks that might be annoying 5-minute tasks and turn them into 30-second
tasks. It really changes how you think about writing tests if the process of
getting started takes less time!

#### File Methods

The file `FileExample.java` has an implementation of a method that works with
the filesystem and, fortunately for our learning, it's buggy.

This one is interesting because the definition of a "failure-inducing input" is
trickier – this program won't run without us having some files and paths
available to try! There is a comment in `FileExample.java` showing an example file structure for this program. So the first thing you may want to do is _create_ the file structure depicted in the comment in your repository! Then you can
write tests that use `FileExample.java`. You can create this just using VScode's "new
file" and "new folder" buttons/options.

To help you read and understand the program check out the `File` documentation here:

[https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html)

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs. Remember that your input
is not just the code, but also the test files you created.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new files,
including the files you created as test input! All these files need to be a part
of the repository so that we can run the tests. (This is a particularly annoying
one to realize you missed later – the test will fail because the input data
doesn't exist!)


**Discuss** – Out of all the bugs above, which was the most interesting bug you
found? Have you ever made bugs like these yourself in your own programs? What
about having JUnit tests written might be useful one or two weeks from now?

#### Bugs and Troubleshooting

Let's test your knowledge of bugs and how to troubleshoot them!

You and your partner should design a bug that you think is _not_ trivial to
catch.  Make sure _you_ agree on what a failure-inducing input for it is. This
could be a new method you make up, or an edit to one of the existing methods in
the lab already.

**Write down in notes** - Then, with another pair who has also done this, swap
the buggy programs you designed (you can copy-paste them into the notes doc to
share). See if you can spot one another's bugs, and catch them with a
well-designed input. Were these easy or hard to catch?

Once both groups have found the issues, try again! Try to stump one another with
plausible, but tough-to-find, bugs.

Share your favorites with your team and tutor. We'll share a few of the best
ones in class.

Commit message:

Update index.md to include lab writeup related to path of cloned repo

src/week4/index.md, after:

# Week 4 – Testing and File Manipulation

## Lecture Materials

- [Monday Lecture Handout (Slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13piUG-QiDoxMq8X0lbkFT8sOHKj7D2lb/edit?usp=sharing&ouid=109342588918218787603&rtpof=true&sd=true)
- [Monday Lecture Handout (PDF)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1AJ0cpsywi0aLxS5DiKstIT2Eu8MljNHC/view?usp=sharing)

### To Read/For Your Reference

- [Bash and Shell Scripting 1](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/course-shell/)
- [Bash and Shell Scripting 2](https://missing.csail.mit.edu/2020/shell-tools/)

### Video Shorts

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/XJBUw3sNeuk" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/hIqa1EoqIBM" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/ZsCVRkR_nik" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/M_S88_2t1UE?cc_load_policy=1" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Lab Tasks

As usual, we publish these ahead of time, but they aren't guaranteed to be final
until the start of lab on Monday.

This week in lab, you will download Github Desktop, find symptoms of bugs by writing tests, and then
narrow down the actual bug.

### Getting Set Up

#### Downloading Java JDK

If you don't have Java already installed, go ahead and download
the latest Java JDK version from this [Oracle](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/) link.
Download the version that has "Installer" in the file name for your specific device (Linux, macOS, Windows).

#### Cloning with Github Desktop

There are many ways to download the code from your repository and upload
changes. We will use [Github Desktop](https://desktop.github.com/) to do this
today, and see other options in the future. Even if you have some other
preferred way to do this that you've used before, please do follow the tutorial!
You may learn something new and useful.

Download the [Desktop Client](https://desktop.github.com/) for Github. Install
it, and log in with your Github account. The startup page should look something
like this:

![](/images/github-desktop.png)

Then, you can get the code from your repository in one of several ways:

- On the Github repository page, there is a `<> Code` button; you can click on that and
choose “Open with Github Desktop”
- From Github Desktop, you can choose “Clone a Repository from the Internet” and
then choose your repository

To test it out, try cloning your lab reports repository. You'll see a message
about cloning, and then see this page:

![](/images/github-after-clone.png)

In this screenshot, you'll see the red circled part where it says `Open in Visual Studio Code`, which is where you can open your code in VS Code to edit your files directly! One thing that I often find a little surprising about this page is that it
doesn't list any files – `index.md` is nowhere to be found here! This is because
Github Desktop (and the underlying tool, `git`) are all about tracking and
recording _changes_; we won't see much in this interface until we make some
edits or create some new files.

Today in lab, you'll clone another repository and work with it a bit, so
you'll see how this works.

### Forking a Repo

Make a fork of this repository (it's OK if it's public):

[https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-f23/lab3](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-f23/lab3)

The fork button is on the upper right:

![](/images/fork-button.png)

This makes a copy of the repository on in your Github account. Then, clone the
repository that you forked (not the original!) using Github Desktop, and open it
in Visual Studio Code.

**Write down in notes** - Find the exact location of the cloned repository in your computer's file system and write down the entire pathname. It is worthwhile to keep track of where cloned repos are located and to organize your computer.

There are a few relevant files for us:

- `ArrayExamples.java`
- `ArrayTests.java`
- `ListExamples.java`
- `LinkedListExample.java`
- `FileExample.java`

The files that end in `Example` or `Examples` have code in them with bugs for
you to find – in `ListExamples` and `ArrayExamples`, all the methods have bugs.
- In `LinkedListExample` at least one of the methods on `LinkedList` has a bug. 
- In `FileExample`, `getFiles` has a bug. 
  
So many 🐛s!

The file `ArrayTests.java` has some _tests_ for the methods in
`ArrayExamples.java`. It uses a library called
[JUnit](https://junit.org/junit4/) to run tests using methods called
`assertEquals` and `assertArrayEquals` and other `assert...` methods. 
(**Note:** JUnit is already included in the repository so no need to install anything) 

When we run this class with JUnit, it runs each method that has a `@Test` annotation on
it, and reports the success or failure of the `assert` calls.

Since JUnit is an external library, it requires some extra work to compile and
run. These two commands work well, and you should see output like the below when
you run them:
    
MAC USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar *.java
local $ java -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
JUnit version 4.13.2
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```
    
WINDOWS USERS:
```
local $ javac -cp ".;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar" *.java
local $ java -cp ".;lib/junit-4.13.2.jar;lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar" org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ArrayTests
..
Time: 0.006

OK (2 tests)
```

- The `*` in the first command tells `javac` to compile *all* the `.java` files
in this directory. It's a shorthand for writing them all out, so it's a useful
notation to start using now whenever we have several Java files to compile.
- The `-cp` command-line argument stands for "classpath". Java uses this
command-line argument to know where to look for classes. It takes paths
separated by `:` / `;` (dependent on your operating system), so the first place it will look is `.`, the current directory.
After that, it will look for classes in the two `.jar` files in the `lib`
directory. A `.jar` file is like a `.zip` file of a bunch of classes, and Java
knows how to work with them.
- While you might think the `..` in the output below `JUnit` has something to do
with a path, it's actually printing a `.` for each test that runs. So if you run
hundreds of tests, you can kinda watch the progress by seeing how the dots count
up.

**Task with your group:** Try running the command of the operating system that *isn't*
yours. (For example, a MAC user trying the Windows command and vise-versa) *Observe* the
output and *discuss* with your partner/group what happens and why? 

### Symptoms and Failure-inducing Inputs

#### Array Methods

The two tests we wrote for you in `ArrayTests.java` pass, but the two implementations of *reverse* methods in `ArrayExamples.java` have bugs! Write more tests in `ArrayTests.java` to demonstrate that the two methods, `reverseInPlace` and `reversed`, have bugs, and identify the bugs.

**Write down in notes** - For each, what was the failure-inducing input (the
test)? What was the symptom (the output when the test failed)? What was the bug
(the problem in the code)? Be as specific as possible when adding the following down to your notes:
1. The code for your tests (copy it into the doc)
2. The output corresponding to each symptom
3. The code change you need to make to fix the bug


**Checkpoint** – After fixing the reverse methods, we want to save these changes to our Github repo. It's really useful to checkpoint your work this way; you will
be able to see in the commit history every time you make a change and commit.

In order for these changes to appear on GitHub, we need to **commit** and **push** them. Open your GitHub Desktop window, and it should show that you have made a change in the `lab3` respository as seen in the image below (which shows the `wavelet` repo but it should look similar). Click the button shown at the bottom left that says `Commit to main`.

![commit_github_desktop](/images/commit-github-desktop.png)

Next, for the changes to actually appear on GitHub, you need to **push** them. GitHub Desktop should now display a new screen. Click the `Push origin` button displayed in the screenshot below.

![push_github_desktop](/images/push-github-desktop.png)

Now your changes to this repository should be visible in GitHub!

You can see more documentation about git and pushing your changes here:

- [Key definitions about git](https://ucsd-cse15l-w24.github.io/week1/index.html#key-definitions)
- [Github documentation about pushing changes](https://docs.github.com/en/desktop/contributing-and-collaborating-using-github-desktop/making-changes-in-a-branch/pushing-changes-to-github)

Next, for `averageWithoutLowest`, you will do a similar process as above, making sure to note symptoms, failure-inducing inputs, and bugs. But, this time, **your lab partner will brainstorm one of the tests for you to write, describe it to you at a high level, and then you will implement it.** Complete these steps as described below.
1. **Write down in notes** - Come up with a high level description of a test that your lab partner should implement (without using any code!). Also include: Which symptom/bug is this testing for? Why is this test useful?
2. Implement and run the test devised by your lab partner

If you're having trouble thinking of tests, try starting from the smallest
possible inputs (an empty array), and then trying increasing sizes of arrays to
structure your thinking.

#### List Methods

There are two methods in `ListExamples`, each of which has a bug. For this
program, create **a new file** called `ListTests.java` with JUnit tests. In `ListTests.java`, write some tests to identify and demonstrate the bugs in `ListExamples`. You should carefully design your tests to get failing inputs, symptoms,
and eventually identify the bugs. Keep in mind that most of the time we can find
relatively *small* inputs that trigger the symptom!

Hint – if you're not sure about Java interfaces, there is [review material](https://ucsd-cse11-f21.github.io/lectures/lecture10.html), [and an online textbook with examples (free, you have to make an account)](https://stepik.org/course/100177/promo).

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see!

#### Linked List Methods

The file `LinkedListExample.java` has an implementation of a linked list that
is, in fact, buggy. We won't tell you which method(s) have the bugs. Create a
file called `LinkedListTests.java` and write tests in that file.

Note that for this case, your failure-inducing input requires a little more work
to construct: you have to build lists and try out the methods. All of that work
is part of the “failure-inducing input”, and it's useful to have it all written
down in code so that we don't have to remember it or re-type it each time we
want to run the test.

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new file! This
is one of the most common mistakes I make with `git` that is annoying for my
collaborators: I add a new file locally and forget to put it on Github for them
to see! This is repeated from last week.

**Reflect, write down in notes** – You've now had to create two new test files
(one for `ListExamples` and one for `LinkedListExample`). What actions did you take in
your editor to do this? How long did it take you? Could you or did you use
copy/paste effectively to avoid lots of typing? Could you or did you use the up
arrow in the terminal to “get back” earlier commands rather than typing them out
again? Any other tricks you could use to make this more painless in the future?

Discuss with your group! The long-term goal here is to learn tips and tricks to
take tasks that might be annoying 5-minute tasks and turn them into 30-second
tasks. It really changes how you think about writing tests if the process of
getting started takes less time!

#### File Methods

The file `FileExample.java` has an implementation of a method that works with
the filesystem and, fortunately for our learning, it's buggy.

This one is interesting because the definition of a "failure-inducing input" is
trickier – this program won't run without us having some files and paths
available to try! There is a comment in `FileExample.java` showing an example file structure for this program. So the first thing you may want to do is _create_ the file structure depicted in the comment in your repository! Then you can
write tests that use `FileExample.java`. You can create this just using VScode's "new
file" and "new folder" buttons/options.

To help you read and understand the program check out the `File` documentation here:

[https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html](https://docs.oracle.com/javase/8/docs/api/java/io/File.html)

**Write down in notes** – Symptoms, inputs, and bugs. Remember that your input
is not just the code, but also the test files you created.

**Checkpoint** – Commit and push your changes, and don't forget to add the new files,
including the files you created as test input! All these files need to be a part
of the repository so that we can run the tests. (This is a particularly annoying
one to realize you missed later – the test will fail because the input data
doesn't exist!)


**Discuss** – Out of all the bugs above, which was the most interesting bug you
found? Have you ever made bugs like these yourself in your own programs? What
about having JUnit tests written might be useful one or two weeks from now?

#### Bugs and Troubleshooting

Let's test your knowledge of bugs and how to troubleshoot them!

You and your partner should design a bug that you think is _not_ trivial to
catch.  Make sure _you_ agree on what a failure-inducing input for it is. This
could be a new method you make up, or an edit to one of the existing methods in
the lab already.

**Write down in notes** - Then, with another pair who has also done this, swap
the buggy programs you designed (you can copy-paste them into the notes doc to
share). See if you can spot one another's bugs, and catch them with a
well-designed input. Were these easy or hard to catch?

Once both groups have found the issues, try again! Try to stump one another with
plausible, but tough-to-find, bugs.

Share your favorites with your team and tutor. We'll share a few of the best
ones in class.
