src/week7/index.md, before:

# Week 7 - Doing it All from the Command Line

## Lecture Materials

- [Monday Lecture Video (Holiday, no handout)]
  <iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Dlxi5vlfHKRu5v3Vwr7OMbZuINohMn1q/preview" width="560" height="315" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
- [Wednesday Lecture Handout (PDF)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13WNkdI6pSdmGcbousnF0AGn_9Lvu1fIj/view?usp=drive_link)
- [Wednesday Lecture Handout (Slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13bwkHYiLGMRSD8t5Pl-pSZHE-V2fe6FS/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=117453768726816085396&rtpof=true&sd=true)

## Related Links

- [About Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) (You don't necessarily have to install this on its own for your computer; but this is the link to the underlying tool called `git`. It's included in Github Desktop.)
- [Vim](https://www.vim.org/)

## Lab Tasks

Discuss with your group:
![Image](../../images/questionofweek7.png)

This lab will be focused on doing all the tasks we've been doing so far _solely
from the command line_. That means using `vim` for editing and the `git` command
line tools for cloning and pushing.

### Editing from the command line: `vim`

Log into `ieng6`. Run the command `vimtutor`. Set a timer for 20 minutes.

Complete the first two lessons (go past lesson 2 if you can in 20 minutes).
Really do the exercises!

After the 20 minutes are up, clone this repository which has a subset of the
code from the week 3 lab:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-s23/lab7
```

Then, **in pairs**, you are going to write down _exactly_ the keys to press to
make an edit to fix the test. You'll share these instructions in your shared lab
doc, and the next group is going to use them to try and replicate what you did.

So: Fix the program using what you learned about `vim` in the tutorial (as a
reminder, you're changing the `index1` to `index2` in `ListExamples.java`). 
Re-run the tests to make sure it works. Keep extremely accurate track of
what you had to type to make this happen. You might even want to change the file
back to its initial state (`u` is the command for undo in `vim`) and
double-check that the instructions you are giving are good. When you're
satisfied, write down the list of keys that need to be pressed (including all
uses of Backspace, Enter, Escape, and so on!) in the shared notes doc. Have one
partner in your pair do this typing; the other partner shouldn't make the edits
yet because they will in the next step.

Then, go around the groups one at a time. The group to your left should use your
instructions to try and make the edit, then the next group to their left will
use their instructions, and so on. Watch carefully! Was each group able to? Why
or why not?  Did the group typing do something that didn't match the
instructions, were the instructions not complete, or did something else happen?
Don't leave any mysteries!

You can press Ctrl (or Cmd)-Shift-p and start typing "screencast" to turn on
screencasting mode so others can see what you type.

**Discuss and refine**: After you do this, discuss how you could make the
process easier. Did you have to press the arrow keys a lot? Are there `vim`
commands that could have improved the process? How short of a key sequence can
you make it to perform this edit? Can you get it under 20 keypresses including
save and exit? Under 15?

If you finish quickly and want to practice more, each group can choose **one**
of the following tasks, and repeat this whole process (design the keys to press
in pairs, write them down in the notes, then go around and try the instructions
one pair at a time, with others looking on and observing).

- In `ListExamples.java`, change the name of the `sc` parameter of
`filter`, and all of its uses, to instead be called `checker`.
- In `ListExamples.java`, add a new line at the top of the first `while` loop in `merge` that prints out the current values of `index1` and `index2`.
- In `ListExamplesTests.java`, add a test for `merge` on two empty lists.

After watching the other groups do their work, can you think of any ways to
improve your instructions?

### Speeding up Command Line Tasks

There are many things we can do to speed up working with the command line,
making it more efficient and easy to use. Working quickly can dramatically
change how difficult future programming tasks are for you, so it's worth
spending time getting better at using your tools.

In this lab, you’re going to learn how to make this process a lot easier for
you.  Then, you will measure your improvement as you learn to complete the
command line tasks most efficiently. As you do this, check in with the people in
your group to see how they are doing things more or less efficiently than you,
and share tips.

#### Timing Tasks

These are the tasks you will be timing yourself on. As setup, Make a fork of
[the lab 7 repo](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-s23/lab7) on your Github
account, so it starts as an exact copy of our repository. Before timing yourself
again, make sure to delete and re-fork the repository so you’re starting from a
clean state.  The TAs were able to get under 5 minutes after a couple of tries.

So a run through this process will look like this. Don't do it just yet, though.
There's a little bit of setup involved!

*This is just a preview, don't do these steps yet!*
1. **Setup** Delete any existing forks of the repository you have on your account
2. **Setup** Fork the repository
3. **The real deal** Start the timer!
1. Log into ieng6
2. Clone your fork of the repository from your Github account (using the `SSH` URL)
3. Run the tests, demonstrating that they fail
4. Edit the code file `ListExamples.java` to fix the failing test (as a reminder, the error in the code is just that `index1` is used instead of `index2` in the final loop in `merge`)
5. Run the tests, demonstrating that they now succeed
6. Commit and push the resulting change to your Github account

#### Generating SSH Keys for ieng6

If you haven't yet, go back to the [week 3
lab](https://ucsd-cse15l-w24.github.io/week3/index.html#part-3-setting-up-ssh-keys-for-easy-access-and-two-new-commands)
and make sure you are set up to SSH without a password using keys!

#### Generating SSH Keys for GitHub

You can access and write data in repositories on GitHub.com using SSH. When you
connect via SSH, you authenticate using a private key file on your local
machine, which in our case will be the ieng6 machine. 

Create a private SSH key file on ieng6. This is a **new** private key just for
accessing Github from your course-specific account.
- Login to ieng6 as usual (hopefully, without typing a password now!)
- Run the command `ssh-keygen`, and again press Enter until the command completes and shows the "randomart image"

Next, we want to add the public key to your **Github** account. This is like
the step of copying the public key to `authorized_keys` on `ieng6`, but instead
we're copying to Github.

- Display the SSH public key generated above to your clipboard using `cat` like
below; you can copy it by highlighting and right-clicking
  - `cat <path of your ssh key .pub file>`
- Open your Github account on the browser.
- In the upper right corner, click on your profile photo, then click **Settings**.
- In the “Access” section of the sidebar, click **SSH and GPG keys**.
- Click **New SSH key** or **Add SSH key** under the “SSH keys” section.
- Add a “Title” to your key (ex: _Your Name_’s ieng6 machine).
- Select the “Key Type” to be an Authentication Key
- Copy your public key from the output of the `cat` command and paste it into the “Key” field
- Click **Add SSH key**.
- If prompted, confirm access to your account on Github.

Go back to the `ieng6` terminal and:	
- Run the following command to add Github.com as a recognized host (this avoids
the scary yes/no prompt about accepting new connections the first time you
connect)
  - `$ ssh-keyscan -t rsa github.com >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts`
  - `>>` means "append stdout of the command to file"
- Check your connection by running the following command: 
  - `$ ssh -T git@github.com`
  - It will say something like "Hi supercoolstudent1234! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access."

Now we have an SSH key which can be used to authenticate to GitHub! In addition to
using `https` clone URLs, we can now use `SSH` clone URLs that look like this:

![Image](../../images/clone_with_ssh.png)

Crucially, these will allow both cloning **and** pushing to the repository (as
long as your account has access). With this done, try cloning **your fork** of
the lab 7 repository (make a fork if you didn't already), then making a small
change, and pushing it with the command line.

**Important**: For the rest of the lab, make sure to clone using the `SSH` clone URLs as described above!

If you're not sure how to add, commit, and push from the command line, refer to
[this past lecture video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Dlxi5vlfHKRu5v3Vwr7OMbZuINohMn1q/view).

Make sure you can make a change to your repository by editing, adding, and
pushing all from the command line before going on!

#### Baseline

First, we'll take a baseline measurement of performing the tasks above by timing
yourself. Your phone may have a timer app, or you can find one by searching for
online timers. The steps from above are duplicated here:

1. **Setup** Delete any existing forks of the repository you have on your account
2. **Setup** Fork the repository
3. **The real deal** Start the timer!
1. Log into ieng6
2. Clone your fork of the repository from your Github account (using the `SSH` URL)
3. Run the tests, demonstrating that they fail
4. Edit the code file to fix the failing test
5. Run the tests, demonstrating that they now succeed
6. Commit and push the resulting change to your Github account (you can pick any commit message!) 

**Write down in notes:** What was your baseline time? Did your lab partner have
a faster baseline than you? If so, do they have any tips to help you get
started on boosting your efficiency?

#### Speeding Up

Now, you will explore various ways that you can speed up your work. Try all the
steps below, and find out what works best (and what doesn’t work) for you!

1. Using Bash History (up/down arrows)
    - You can use the “up” and “down” arrows to go through the history of
    commands you have executed, it makes executing the same command much easier!
    If you run the commands you care about, then log out and back in, they are
    still in the command history!
    - You can use Ctrl-R to **search** your command history. At the bash prompt,
    type Ctrl-R and then start typing part of a command – what shows up?
    Experiment with using Ctrl-R

2. Using Tab
    - You can use the Tab key to speed up typing commands in the command line in
    the following ways:
      - Start typing the first few letters of a command or path. Pressing tab
      once will autofill the rest of the line up to the point where there are
      multiple potential possibilities. If you press tab a second time, it will
      show you all of the possibilities for what it could autocomplete to. 

3. Keyboard Shortcuts while editing commands
    - More details at: [https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/shortcuts-command-line-navigation](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/shortcuts-command-line-navigation)
    - Have you had a time where you mistyped one of the commands and had to backspace all the way back to fix the problem? There’s a better way!
      - `Ctrl-U` deletes everything from the current cursor position to the beginning of the line
      - `Ctrl-K` deletes everything from the current cursor position to the end of the line
      - `Ctrl-A` goes back to the beginning of the line
      - `Ctrl-E` goes to the end of the line
      - `Ctrl-W` deletes the last word
      - `Alt-Left`/`Alt-Right` (Windows) or `Option-Left`/`Option-Right` (Mac) to move by word
      - Click the “left” or “right” arrow to go to the left/right end of any selection!

4. Quick Copy/Paste
    - Use these keyboard shortcuts to highlight text quicker:
      - Double click – selects an entire word
      - Triple click - selects an entire paragraph
      - `Alt+Shift-Left/Alt+Shift-Right` (Windows) or
      `Option+Shift-Left/Option+Shift-Right` (Mac) -  select multiple words

    - On Mac: 
      - `Command-C` to copy
      - `Command-V` to paste

    - On Windows: 
      - `Ctrl-C` to copy
      - `Ctrl-V` to paste
      - Right click to paste in Windows terminal

## New PR!

After practicing with the above, time yourself again doing the same tasks. Don't
forget to delete and re-fork the repository before timing!

**Write down in notes:** How much were you able to improve from your baseline?

## Lab Report 4 - Vim (Week 7)

For the lab report this week, reproduce the task from above on your own. For each
numbered step starting right after the timer (so steps 4-9), take a screenshot,
and write down exactly which keys you pressed to get to that step.  For special
characters like `<enter>` or `<tab>`, write them in angle brackets with code
formatting. Then, summarize the commands you ran and what the effect of those
keypresses were.

For example, when you run the tests, you might want to use the up arrow or
Ctrl-R to access your bash history rather than typing in the full command with
classpath, etc. You might say something like this accompanying the screenshot
for running the tests:

> Keys pressed:
> `<up><up><up><up><enter>`, `<up><up><up><up><enter>`
> The `javac -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar *.java` command
> was 4 up in the search history, so I used up arrow to access it. Then the `java
> -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar
> org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ...` command was 4 up in the history, so I accessed
> and ran it in the same way.

Add this lab report to your Github Pages site, and submit a PDF of it as usual.

Commit message:

Removed original list mentioning of speedrun tasks and moved repo url

src/week7/index.md, after:

# Week 7 - Doing it All from the Command Line

## Lecture Materials

- [Monday Lecture Video (Holiday, no handout)]
  <iframe src="https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Dlxi5vlfHKRu5v3Vwr7OMbZuINohMn1q/preview" width="560" height="315" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" allowfullscreen=""></iframe>
- [Wednesday Lecture Handout (PDF)](https://drive.google.com/file/d/13WNkdI6pSdmGcbousnF0AGn_9Lvu1fIj/view?usp=drive_link)
- [Wednesday Lecture Handout (Slides)](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/13bwkHYiLGMRSD8t5Pl-pSZHE-V2fe6FS/edit?usp=drive_link&ouid=117453768726816085396&rtpof=true&sd=true)

## Related Links

- [About Git](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git)
- [Git](https://git-scm.com/) (You don't necessarily have to install this on its own for your computer; but this is the link to the underlying tool called `git`. It's included in Github Desktop.)
- [Vim](https://www.vim.org/)

## Lab Tasks

Discuss with your group:
![Image](../../images/questionofweek7.png)

This lab will be focused on doing all the tasks we've been doing so far _solely
from the command line_. That means using `vim` for editing and the `git` command
line tools for cloning and pushing.

### Editing from the command line: `vim`

Log into `ieng6`. Run the command `vimtutor`. Set a timer for 20 minutes.

Complete the first two lessons (go past lesson 2 if you can in 20 minutes).
Really do the exercises!

After the 20 minutes are up, clone this repository which has a subset of the
code from the week 3 lab:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-s23/lab7
```

Then, **in pairs**, you are going to write down _exactly_ the keys to press to
make an edit to fix the test. You'll share these instructions in your shared lab
doc, and the next group is going to use them to try and replicate what you did.

So: Fix the program using what you learned about `vim` in the tutorial (as a
reminder, you're changing the `index1` to `index2` in `ListExamples.java`). 
Re-run the tests to make sure it works. Keep extremely accurate track of
what you had to type to make this happen. You might even want to change the file
back to its initial state (`u` is the command for undo in `vim`) and
double-check that the instructions you are giving are good. When you're
satisfied, write down the list of keys that need to be pressed (including all
uses of Backspace, Enter, Escape, and so on!) in the shared notes doc. Have one
partner in your pair do this typing; the other partner shouldn't make the edits
yet because they will in the next step.

Then, go around the groups one at a time. The group to your left should use your
instructions to try and make the edit, then the next group to their left will
use their instructions, and so on. Watch carefully! Was each group able to? Why
or why not?  Did the group typing do something that didn't match the
instructions, were the instructions not complete, or did something else happen?
Don't leave any mysteries!

You can press Ctrl (or Cmd)-Shift-p and start typing "screencast" to turn on
screencasting mode so others can see what you type.

**Discuss and refine**: After you do this, discuss how you could make the
process easier. Did you have to press the arrow keys a lot? Are there `vim`
commands that could have improved the process? How short of a key sequence can
you make it to perform this edit? Can you get it under 20 keypresses including
save and exit? Under 15?

If you finish quickly and want to practice more, each group can choose **one**
of the following tasks, and repeat this whole process (design the keys to press
in pairs, write them down in the notes, then go around and try the instructions
one pair at a time, with others looking on and observing).

- In `ListExamples.java`, change the name of the `sc` parameter of
`filter`, and all of its uses, to instead be called `checker`.
- In `ListExamples.java`, add a new line at the top of the first `while` loop in `merge` that prints out the current values of `index1` and `index2`.
- In `ListExamplesTests.java`, add a test for `merge` on two empty lists.

After watching the other groups do their work, can you think of any ways to
improve your instructions?

### Speeding up Command Line Tasks

There are many things we can do to speed up working with the command line,
making it more efficient and easy to use. Working quickly can dramatically
change how difficult future programming tasks are for you, so it's worth
spending time getting better at using your tools.

In this lab, you’re going to learn how to make this process a lot easier for
you.  Then, you will measure your improvement as you learn to complete the
command line tasks most efficiently. As you do this, check in with the people in
your group to see how they are doing things more or less efficiently than you,
and share tips.

#### Timing Tasks

In this section, you will be timing yourself while performing a set of tasks. The 
tasks you will be performing will include forking a repository, cloning the fork 
using the `SSH` url, running a set of JUnit tests to demonstrate that they fail,
fixing the bug using the `vim` editor and then re-running the tests.

Before we get to that though, there are few things that you will need to setup that will
help you save a lot of time!

#### Generating SSH Keys for ieng6

If you haven't yet, go back to the [week 3
lab](https://ucsd-cse15l-w24.github.io/week3/index.html#part-3-setting-up-ssh-keys-for-easy-access-and-two-new-commands)
and make sure you are set up to SSH without a password using keys!

#### Generating SSH Keys for GitHub

You can access and write data in repositories on GitHub.com using SSH. When you
connect via SSH, you authenticate using a private key file on your local
machine, which in our case will be the ieng6 machine. 

Create a private SSH key file on ieng6. This is a **new** private key just for
accessing Github from your course-specific account.
- Login to ieng6 as usual (hopefully, without typing a password now!)
- Run the command `ssh-keygen`, and again press Enter until the command completes and shows the "randomart image"

Next, we want to add the public key to your **Github** account. This is like
the step of copying the public key to `authorized_keys` on `ieng6`, but instead
we're copying to Github.

- Display the SSH public key generated above to your clipboard using `cat` like
below; you can copy it by highlighting and right-clicking
  - `cat <path of your ssh key .pub file>`
- Open your Github account on the browser.
- In the upper right corner, click on your profile photo, then click **Settings**.
- In the “Access” section of the sidebar, click **SSH and GPG keys**.
- Click **New SSH key** or **Add SSH key** under the “SSH keys” section.
- Add a “Title” to your key (ex: _Your Name_’s ieng6 machine).
- Select the “Key Type” to be an Authentication Key
- Copy your public key from the output of the `cat` command and paste it into the “Key” field
- Click **Add SSH key**.
- If prompted, confirm access to your account on Github.

Go back to the `ieng6` terminal and:	
- Run the following command to add Github.com as a recognized host (this avoids
the scary yes/no prompt about accepting new connections the first time you
connect)
  - `$ ssh-keyscan -t rsa github.com >> ~/.ssh/known_hosts`
  - `>>` means "append stdout of the command to file"
- Check your connection by running the following command: 
  - `$ ssh -T git@github.com`
  - It will say something like "Hi supercoolstudent1234! You've successfully authenticated, but GitHub does not provide shell access."

Now we have an SSH key which can be used to authenticate to GitHub! In addition to
using `https` clone URLs, we can now use `SSH` clone URLs that look like this:

![Image](../../images/clone_with_ssh.png)

Crucially, these will allow both cloning **and** pushing to the repository (as
long as your account has access). With this done, try cloning **your fork** of
the lab 7 repository (make a fork if you didn't already), then making a small
change, and pushing it with the command line.

**Important**: For the rest of the lab, make sure to clone using the `SSH` clone URLs as described above!

If you're not sure how to add, commit, and push from the command line, refer to
[this past lecture video](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1Dlxi5vlfHKRu5v3Vwr7OMbZuINohMn1q/view).

Make sure you can make a change to your repository by editing, adding, and
pushing all from the command line before going on!

#### Baseline

Let the time trials begin!

First, we'll take a baseline measurement of performing the tasks above by timing
yourself. Your phone may have a timer app, or you can find one by searching for
online timers. The steps from above are duplicated here:

1. **Setup** Delete any existing forks of the repository you have on your account
2. **Setup** Fork the [repository](https://github.com/ucsd-cse15l-s23/lab7)
3. **The real deal** Start the timer!
1. Log into ieng6
2. Clone your fork of the repository from your Github account (using the `SSH` URL)
3. Run the tests, demonstrating that they fail
4. Edit the code file to fix the failing test
5. Run the tests, demonstrating that they now succeed
6. Commit and push the resulting change to your Github account (you can pick any commit message!) 

**Write down in notes:** What was your baseline time? Did your lab partner have
a faster baseline than you? If so, do they have any tips to help you get
started on boosting your efficiency?

#### Speeding Up

Now, you will explore various ways that you can speed up your work. Try all the
steps below, and find out what works best (and what doesn’t work) for you!

1. Using Bash History (up/down arrows)
    - You can use the “up” and “down” arrows to go through the history of
    commands you have executed, it makes executing the same command much easier!
    If you run the commands you care about, then log out and back in, they are
    still in the command history!
    - You can use Ctrl-R to **search** your command history. At the bash prompt,
    type Ctrl-R and then start typing part of a command – what shows up?
    Experiment with using Ctrl-R

2. Using Tab
    - You can use the Tab key to speed up typing commands in the command line in
    the following ways:
      - Start typing the first few letters of a command or path. Pressing tab
      once will autofill the rest of the line up to the point where there are
      multiple potential possibilities. If you press tab a second time, it will
      show you all of the possibilities for what it could autocomplete to. 

3. Keyboard Shortcuts while editing commands
    - More details at: [https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/shortcuts-command-line-navigation](https://www.redhat.com/sysadmin/shortcuts-command-line-navigation)
    - Have you had a time where you mistyped one of the commands and had to backspace all the way back to fix the problem? There’s a better way!
      - `Ctrl-U` deletes everything from the current cursor position to the beginning of the line
      - `Ctrl-K` deletes everything from the current cursor position to the end of the line
      - `Ctrl-A` goes back to the beginning of the line
      - `Ctrl-E` goes to the end of the line
      - `Ctrl-W` deletes the last word
      - `Alt-Left`/`Alt-Right` (Windows) or `Option-Left`/`Option-Right` (Mac) to move by word
      - Click the “left” or “right” arrow to go to the left/right end of any selection!

4. Quick Copy/Paste
    - Use these keyboard shortcuts to highlight text quicker:
      - Double click – selects an entire word
      - Triple click - selects an entire paragraph
      - `Alt+Shift-Left/Alt+Shift-Right` (Windows) or
      `Option+Shift-Left/Option+Shift-Right` (Mac) -  select multiple words

    - On Mac: 
      - `Command-C` to copy
      - `Command-V` to paste

    - On Windows: 
      - `Ctrl-C` to copy
      - `Ctrl-V` to paste
      - Right click to paste in Windows terminal

## New PR!

After practicing with the above, time yourself again doing the same tasks. Don't
forget to delete and re-fork the repository before timing!

**Write down in notes:** How much were you able to improve from your baseline?

## Lab Report 4 - Vim (Week 7)

For the lab report this week, reproduce the task from above on your own. For each
numbered step starting right after the timer (so steps 4-9), take a screenshot,
and write down exactly which keys you pressed to get to that step.  For special
characters like `<enter>` or `<tab>`, write them in angle brackets with code
formatting. Then, summarize the commands you ran and what the effect of those
keypresses were.

For example, when you run the tests, you might want to use the up arrow or
Ctrl-R to access your bash history rather than typing in the full command with
classpath, etc. You might say something like this accompanying the screenshot
for running the tests:

> Keys pressed:
> `<up><up><up><up><enter>`, `<up><up><up><up><enter>`
> The `javac -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar *.java` command
> was 4 up in the search history, so I used up arrow to access it. Then the `java
> -cp .:lib/hamcrest-core-1.3.jar:lib/junit-4.13.2.jar
> org.junit.runner.JUnitCore ...` command was 4 up in the history, so I accessed
> and ran it in the same way.

Add this lab report to your Github Pages site, and submit a PDF of it as usual.
